README.md, before:

# Pico API Go - COVID-19 Data API

A Go backend service that provides REST API endpoints for COVID-19 data in Indonesia, including national cases and province-level statistics.

## Features

- 🦠 National COVID-19 cases data with daily and cumulative statistics
- 🗺️ Province-level COVID-19 data with enhanced ODP/PDP grouping
- 📊 R-rate (reproductive rate) data when available
- 🔍 Date range filtering for all endpoints
- 📄 **Hybrid pagination system** - efficient for apps, complete for charts
- 📚 **Interactive API Documentation** - Auto-generated OpenAPI/Swagger docs
- 🎯 **Smart query parameters** - flexible data retrieval options
- 🚀 Fast and efficient MySQL database integration
- 🔧 Clean architecture with repository and service layers
- 🛡️ CORS support for web frontend integration
- 📝 Structured logging and error handling
- 💾 Environment-based configuration
- 🚀 **Automatic deployment** with GitHub Actions

## 📚 API Documentation

### Interactive Swagger UI
- **Local development**: http://localhost:8080/swagger/index.html
- **Production**: https://pico-api.banuacoder.com/swagger/index.html

### OpenAPI Specification
- YAML: [`docs/swagger.yaml`](docs/swagger.yaml)
- JSON: [`docs/swagger.json`](docs/swagger.json)

## API Endpoints

### Health Check
- `GET /api/v1/health` - Service health status and database connectivity

### National Data
- `GET /api/v1/national` - Get all national cases
- `GET /api/v1/national?start_date=2020-03-01&end_date=2020-12-31` - Get national cases by date range
- `GET /api/v1/national/latest` - Get latest national case data

### Province Data
- `GET /api/v1/provinces` - Get all provinces with latest case data (default)
- `GET /api/v1/provinces?exclude_latest_case=true` - Get basic province list without case data
- `GET /api/v1/provinces/cases` - Get all province cases (paginated by default)
- `GET /api/v1/provinces/cases?all=true` - Get all province cases (complete dataset)
- `GET /api/v1/provinces/cases?limit=100&offset=50` - Get province cases with custom pagination
- `GET /api/v1/provinces/{provinceId}/cases` - Get cases for specific province (paginated)
- `GET /api/v1/provinces/{provinceId}/cases?all=true` - Get all cases for specific province

### 🆕 Enhanced Query Parameters

**Pagination (All province endpoints):**
- `limit` (int): Records per page (default: 50, max: 1000)
- `offset` (int): Records to skip (default: 0)
- `all` (boolean): Return complete dataset without pagination

**Date Filtering:**
- `start_date` (YYYY-MM-DD): Filter from date
- `end_date` (YYYY-MM-DD): Filter to date

**Province Enhancement:**
- `exclude_latest_case` (boolean): Return basic province list without case data (default includes latest case data)

### 📄 Response Types

**Paginated Response:**
```json
{
  "status": "success",
  "data": {
    "data": [...],
    "pagination": {
      "limit": 50,
      "offset": 0,
      "total": 1000,
      "page": 1,
      "has_next": true,
      "has_prev": false
    }
  }
}
```

**Complete Data Response:**
```json
{
  "status": "success", 
  "data": [...]
}
```

## 🆕 Enhanced Data Structure

### Grouped ODP/PDP Data

Province case data now includes structured ODP (Person Under Observation) and PDP (Patient Under Supervision) data:

```json
{
  "daily": {
    "positive": 150,
    "odp": {
      "active": 5,
      "finished": 20
    },
    "pdp": {
      "active": 8, 
      "finished": 25
    }
  },
  "cumulative": {
    "positive": 5000,
    "odp": {
      "active": 50,
      "finished": 750,
      "total": 800
    },
    "pdp": {
      "active": 20,
      "finished": 580, 
      "total": 600
    }
  }
}
```

## Usage Examples

### For Web Applications (Efficient Loading)
```javascript
// Load first page (default: 50 records)
const response = await fetch('/api/v1/provinces/cases');
const { data, pagination } = response.data;

// Load next page
if (pagination.has_next) {
    const nextPage = await fetch(`/api/v1/provinces/cases?offset=${pagination.offset + pagination.limit}`);
}
```

### For Charts & Analytics (Complete Dataset)
```javascript
// Get complete dataset for time series charts
const response = await fetch('/api/v1/provinces/cases?all=true&start_date=2024-01-01');
const allData = response.data;

// Perfect for Chart.js, D3.js, etc.
const chartData = allData.map(item => ({
    x: item.date,
    y: item.cumulative.positive
}));
```

### For Province-Specific Analysis
```javascript
// Get all Jakarta data
const response = await fetch('/api/v1/provinces/31/cases?all=true');

// Get provinces with their latest statistics (default behavior)
const provincesResponse = await fetch('/api/v1/provinces');
```

## Setup and Installation

### Prerequisites
- Go 1.25+ 
- MySQL database
- Git

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/banua-coder/pico-api-go.git
cd pico-api-go
```

2. Copy environment configuration:
```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

3. Update the `.env` file with your database configuration:
```env
DB_HOST=your_db_host
DB_PORT=3306
DB_USERNAME=your_db_username
DB_PASSWORD=your_db_password
DB_NAME=your_db_name
SERVER_HOST=localhost
SERVER_PORT=8080
ENV=development
```

4. Install dependencies:
```bash
go mod tidy
```

5. Run the application:
```bash
go run cmd/main.go
```

The API will be available at `http://localhost:8080`

### Building for Production

```bash
go build -o pico-api-go cmd/main.go
./pico-api-go
```

### Regenerating API Documentation

After modifying handlers or adding new endpoints, regenerate the Swagger docs:

```bash
# Install swag tool (one-time setup)
go install github.com/swaggo/swag/cmd/swag@latest

# Generate documentation
swag init -g cmd/main.go -o ./docs
```

## Database Schema

The API uses three main tables:

### national_cases
- Daily national COVID-19 statistics
- Includes positive, recovered, deceased cases
- Cumulative data and R-rate when available

### provinces
- Indonesian province information
- Uses official province codes (e.g., Aceh: 11, Sulawesi Tengah: 72)

### province_cases
- Province-level COVID-19 statistics
- Includes ODP (Orang Dalam Pemantauan) and PDP (Pasien Dalam Pengawasan) tracking
- Links to national_cases for date information

## Shared Hosting Deployment

This API is designed to work with shared hosting environments:

1. Build the binary for your target platform
2. Upload the binary and `.env` file to your hosting provider
3. Ensure your hosting provider supports Go applications
4. Configure the database connection in the `.env` file
5. Start the application

## Development

### Git Flow
This project uses Git Flow for development:

```bash
# Start a new feature
git flow feature start feature-name

# Finish a feature
git flow feature finish feature-name
```

### Project Structure
```
├── cmd/                    # Application entry points
│   └── main.go
├── internal/              # Private application code
│   ├── config/           # Configuration management
│   ├── handler/          # HTTP handlers and routes
│   ├── middleware/       # HTTP middleware
│   ├── models/          # Data models
│   ├── repository/      # Data access layer
│   └── service/         # Business logic layer
├── pkg/                  # Public packages
│   └── database/        # Database connection
├── .env.example         # Environment configuration template
├── .gitignore
├── go.mod
├── go.sum
└── README.md
```

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch using Git Flow
3. Make your changes
4. Add tests if applicable
5. Submit a pull request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Commit message:

docs: clarify Sulawesi Tengah focus in API documentation
- Update API title to 'Sulawesi Tengah COVID-19 Data API'
- Clarify that national and other provincial data are for context
- Emphasize primary focus on Central Sulawesi COVID-19 data
- Update all documentation files (README, API docs, Swagger specs)
- Regenerate OpenAPI documentation with correct regional focus

This better reflects the actual purpose and scope of the API,
making it clear to users that while national data is available,
the main focus is on Sulawesi Tengah regional COVID-19 information.

README.md, after:

# Pico API Go - Sulawesi Tengah COVID-19 Data API

A Go backend service that provides REST API endpoints for COVID-19 data in Sulawesi Tengah (Central Sulawesi), with additional national and provincial data for context.

## Features

- 🏛️ **Sulawesi Tengah focused** COVID-19 data with comprehensive statistics
- 🦠 National COVID-19 cases data for reference and context
- 🗺️ Province-level COVID-19 data with enhanced ODP/PDP grouping
- 📊 R-rate (reproductive rate) data when available
- 🔍 Date range filtering for all endpoints
- 📄 **Hybrid pagination system** - efficient for apps, complete for charts
- 📚 **Interactive API Documentation** - Auto-generated OpenAPI/Swagger docs
- 🎯 **Smart query parameters** - flexible data retrieval options
- 🚀 Fast and efficient MySQL database integration
- 🔧 Clean architecture with repository and service layers
- 🛡️ CORS support for web frontend integration
- 📝 Structured logging and error handling
- 💾 Environment-based configuration
- 🚀 **Automatic deployment** with GitHub Actions

## 📚 API Documentation

### Interactive Swagger UI
- **Local development**: http://localhost:8080/swagger/index.html
- **Production**: https://pico-api.banuacoder.com/swagger/index.html

### OpenAPI Specification
- YAML: [`docs/swagger.yaml`](docs/swagger.yaml)
- JSON: [`docs/swagger.json`](docs/swagger.json)

## API Endpoints

### Health Check
- `GET /api/v1/health` - Service health status and database connectivity

### National Data
- `GET /api/v1/national` - Get all national cases
- `GET /api/v1/national?start_date=2020-03-01&end_date=2020-12-31` - Get national cases by date range
- `GET /api/v1/national/latest` - Get latest national case data

### Province Data
- `GET /api/v1/provinces` - Get all provinces with latest case data (default)
- `GET /api/v1/provinces?exclude_latest_case=true` - Get basic province list without case data
- `GET /api/v1/provinces/cases` - Get all province cases (paginated by default)
- `GET /api/v1/provinces/cases?all=true` - Get all province cases (complete dataset)
- `GET /api/v1/provinces/cases?limit=100&offset=50` - Get province cases with custom pagination
- `GET /api/v1/provinces/{provinceId}/cases` - Get cases for specific province (paginated)
- `GET /api/v1/provinces/{provinceId}/cases?all=true` - Get all cases for specific province

### 🆕 Enhanced Query Parameters

**Pagination (All province endpoints):**
- `limit` (int): Records per page (default: 50, max: 1000)
- `offset` (int): Records to skip (default: 0)
- `all` (boolean): Return complete dataset without pagination

**Date Filtering:**
- `start_date` (YYYY-MM-DD): Filter from date
- `end_date` (YYYY-MM-DD): Filter to date

**Province Enhancement:**
- `exclude_latest_case` (boolean): Return basic province list without case data (default includes latest case data)

### 📄 Response Types

**Paginated Response:**
```json
{
  "status": "success",
  "data": {
    "data": [...],
    "pagination": {
      "limit": 50,
      "offset": 0,
      "total": 1000,
      "page": 1,
      "has_next": true,
      "has_prev": false
    }
  }
}
```

**Complete Data Response:**
```json
{
  "status": "success", 
  "data": [...]
}
```

## 🆕 Enhanced Data Structure

### Grouped ODP/PDP Data

Province case data now includes structured ODP (Person Under Observation) and PDP (Patient Under Supervision) data:

```json
{
  "daily": {
    "positive": 150,
    "odp": {
      "active": 5,
      "finished": 20
    },
    "pdp": {
      "active": 8, 
      "finished": 25
    }
  },
  "cumulative": {
    "positive": 5000,
    "odp": {
      "active": 50,
      "finished": 750,
      "total": 800
    },
    "pdp": {
      "active": 20,
      "finished": 580, 
      "total": 600
    }
  }
}
```

## Usage Examples

### For Web Applications (Efficient Loading)
```javascript
// Load first page (default: 50 records)
const response = await fetch('/api/v1/provinces/cases');
const { data, pagination } = response.data;

// Load next page
if (pagination.has_next) {
    const nextPage = await fetch(`/api/v1/provinces/cases?offset=${pagination.offset + pagination.limit}`);
}
```

### For Charts & Analytics (Complete Dataset)
```javascript
// Get complete dataset for time series charts
const response = await fetch('/api/v1/provinces/cases?all=true&start_date=2024-01-01');
const allData = response.data;

// Perfect for Chart.js, D3.js, etc.
const chartData = allData.map(item => ({
    x: item.date,
    y: item.cumulative.positive
}));
```

### For Province-Specific Analysis
```javascript
// Get all Jakarta data
const response = await fetch('/api/v1/provinces/31/cases?all=true');

// Get provinces with their latest statistics (default behavior)
const provincesResponse = await fetch('/api/v1/provinces');
```

## Setup and Installation

### Prerequisites
- Go 1.25+ 
- MySQL database
- Git

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/banua-coder/pico-api-go.git
cd pico-api-go
```

2. Copy environment configuration:
```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

3. Update the `.env` file with your database configuration:
```env
DB_HOST=your_db_host
DB_PORT=3306
DB_USERNAME=your_db_username
DB_PASSWORD=your_db_password
DB_NAME=your_db_name
SERVER_HOST=localhost
SERVER_PORT=8080
ENV=development
```

4. Install dependencies:
```bash
go mod tidy
```

5. Run the application:
```bash
go run cmd/main.go
```

The API will be available at `http://localhost:8080`

### Building for Production

```bash
go build -o pico-api-go cmd/main.go
./pico-api-go
```

### Regenerating API Documentation

After modifying handlers or adding new endpoints, regenerate the Swagger docs:

```bash
# Install swag tool (one-time setup)
go install github.com/swaggo/swag/cmd/swag@latest

# Generate documentation
swag init -g cmd/main.go -o ./docs
```

## Database Schema

The API uses three main tables:

### national_cases
- Daily national COVID-19 statistics
- Includes positive, recovered, deceased cases
- Cumulative data and R-rate when available

### provinces
- Indonesian province information
- Uses official province codes (e.g., Aceh: 11, Sulawesi Tengah: 72)

### province_cases
- Province-level COVID-19 statistics
- Includes ODP (Orang Dalam Pemantauan) and PDP (Pasien Dalam Pengawasan) tracking
- Links to national_cases for date information

## Shared Hosting Deployment

This API is designed to work with shared hosting environments:

1. Build the binary for your target platform
2. Upload the binary and `.env` file to your hosting provider
3. Ensure your hosting provider supports Go applications
4. Configure the database connection in the `.env` file
5. Start the application

## Development

### Git Flow
This project uses Git Flow for development:

```bash
# Start a new feature
git flow feature start feature-name

# Finish a feature
git flow feature finish feature-name
```

### Project Structure
```
├── cmd/                    # Application entry points
│   └── main.go
├── internal/              # Private application code
│   ├── config/           # Configuration management
│   ├── handler/          # HTTP handlers and routes
│   ├── middleware/       # HTTP middleware
│   ├── models/          # Data models
│   ├── repository/      # Data access layer
│   └── service/         # Business logic layer
├── pkg/                  # Public packages
│   └── database/        # Database connection
├── .env.example         # Environment configuration template
├── .gitignore
├── go.mod
├── go.sum
└── README.md
```

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch using Git Flow
3. Make your changes
4. Add tests if applicable
5. Submit a pull request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
