docs/README.md, before:

# API Documentation

This directory contains auto-generated OpenAPI/Swagger documentation for the COVID-19 Indonesia API.

## Files

- `swagger.yaml` - OpenAPI 3.0 specification in YAML format
- `swagger.json` - OpenAPI 3.0 specification in JSON format  
- `docs.go` - Generated Go file containing the documentation

## Usage

### Interactive Documentation

When the API server is running, you can access the interactive Swagger UI at:
- **Local development**: http://localhost:8080/swagger/index.html
- **Production**: https://pico-api.banuacoder.com/swagger/index.html

### Swagger Specification Files

You can also use the specification files directly with various tools:

```bash
# Validate the OpenAPI spec
swagger-codegen validate -i docs/swagger.yaml

# Generate client SDKs
swagger-codegen generate -i docs/swagger.yaml -l javascript -o clients/js
swagger-codegen generate -i docs/swagger.yaml -l python -o clients/python

# Import into Postman, Insomnia, or other API tools
# Use the swagger.json or swagger.yaml file
```

## Regenerating Documentation

To regenerate the documentation after code changes:

```bash
swag init -g cmd/main.go -o ./docs
```

This will update all files in this directory based on the Go code annotations.

## Key Features Documented

- 🏥 **Health Check** - API status and database connectivity
- 🇮🇩 **National Data** - COVID-19 statistics for Indonesia
- 🗺️ **Province Data** - Provincial COVID-19 information with latest case data by default
- 📊 **Province Cases** - Detailed case data with hybrid pagination support
- 📄 **Pagination** - Comprehensive pagination metadata and flexible data retrieval
- 🏷️ **Enhanced Data Structure** - Grouped ODP/PDP fields with proper daily/cumulative separation

## Response Models

All response models include proper JSON schema definitions with:
- Type validation
- Required field specifications  
- Example values
- Field descriptions
- Nested object relationships

This makes it easy to generate client code, validate API responses, and understand the data structure.

Commit message:

docs: clarify Sulawesi Tengah focus in API documentation
- Update API title to 'Sulawesi Tengah COVID-19 Data API'
- Clarify that national and other provincial data are for context
- Emphasize primary focus on Central Sulawesi COVID-19 data
- Update all documentation files (README, API docs, Swagger specs)
- Regenerate OpenAPI documentation with correct regional focus

This better reflects the actual purpose and scope of the API,
making it clear to users that while national data is available,
the main focus is on Sulawesi Tengah regional COVID-19 information.

docs/README.md, after:

# API Documentation

This directory contains auto-generated OpenAPI/Swagger documentation for the Sulawesi Tengah COVID-19 Data API.

## Files

- `swagger.yaml` - OpenAPI 3.0 specification in YAML format
- `swagger.json` - OpenAPI 3.0 specification in JSON format  
- `docs.go` - Generated Go file containing the documentation

## Usage

### Interactive Documentation

When the API server is running, you can access the interactive Swagger UI at:
- **Local development**: http://localhost:8080/swagger/index.html
- **Production**: https://pico-api.banuacoder.com/swagger/index.html

### Swagger Specification Files

You can also use the specification files directly with various tools:

```bash
# Validate the OpenAPI spec
swagger-codegen validate -i docs/swagger.yaml

# Generate client SDKs
swagger-codegen generate -i docs/swagger.yaml -l javascript -o clients/js
swagger-codegen generate -i docs/swagger.yaml -l python -o clients/python

# Import into Postman, Insomnia, or other API tools
# Use the swagger.json or swagger.yaml file
```

## Regenerating Documentation

To regenerate the documentation after code changes:

```bash
swag init -g cmd/main.go -o ./docs
```

This will update all files in this directory based on the Go code annotations.

## Key Features Documented

- 🏥 **Health Check** - API status and database connectivity
- 🏛️ **Sulawesi Tengah Focus** - Primary COVID-19 data for Central Sulawesi
- 🇮🇩 **National Data** - COVID-19 statistics for Indonesia (reference context)
- 🗺️ **Province Data** - Provincial COVID-19 information with latest case data by default
- 📊 **Province Cases** - Detailed case data with hybrid pagination support
- 📄 **Pagination** - Comprehensive pagination metadata and flexible data retrieval
- 🏷️ **Enhanced Data Structure** - Grouped ODP/PDP fields with proper daily/cumulative separation

## Response Models

All response models include proper JSON schema definitions with:
- Type validation
- Required field specifications  
- Example values
- Field descriptions
- Nested object relationships

This makes it easy to generate client code, validate API responses, and understand the data structure.
